hi i'm jim yong president of precision
craft logon timber homes makers of high
quality handcrafted log homes mil blog
homes and timber frame homes in another
video we showed you our handcrafted log
operation in this video segment i'd like
to show you how we manufacture some of
the most beautiful no blog and timber
frame homes throughout the united states
now let us take a look at our
manufacturing facility the majority of
our milled log homes and all of our
timber frame homes are constructed using
Douglas fir one of the strongest woods
available if preferred clients may also
decide to use western white wood or
western red cedar whatever specie is
selected every log is milled using the
highest grade timber through the milling
process logs are milled cut notched and
drilled to the precise specification of
the design each piece is individually
inspected graded and labeled with
barcodes to ensure that all logs and
Timbers are accounted for before they
are shipped the logs are also prepared
for the installation of the household
non-settling system with this
specialized system settling is
eliminated using a steel rod and pin
system giving you complete confidence in
the structural soundness of your home
plus it also allows our clients more
flexibility in design making it possible
for more complex sophisticated milled
log homes with a large variety of
profiles and sizes available you can
achieve the look and feel you desire for
your home you can choose from round D
log rectangle and square with
overlapping notched or dovetail corners
each providing a unique look for your
custom design home also find a log size
10 inches in diameter and up that best
complement your home design and works
within your budget
precision craft Imber frame homes and
components are created with
computer control manufacturing
technology this specialized milling
equipment can cut the most complicated
connections and angles we utilize wood
to wood mortise and tenon connections
and the more high-tech timber link steel
connectors this gives us great
flexibility in designing special timber
components and timber trusses the best
part about your custom design is the
ability to mix it up a little with our
in-house architectural firm and full
manufacturing facility you can integrate
timber frame elements into a log or
stick frame home or create your own
unique combination of milled log timber
and handcrafted log after each log or
timber component is properly milled
inspected and labeled they are carefully
stacked on delivery trucks once the log
in timber arrives at your building site
our professional stacking crew will
assemble your home on the foundation
in-house tacking services ensure
one-party responsibility from design
through manufacturing and installation
one party responsibility ensures that
the log and timber products are properly
installed we take great pride in the
design and manufacturing of our halls
this means we not only produce the
highest quality product but we also act
as your guide delivering total home
solution at the end of this process your
finished home is a one-of-a-kind
masterpiece
to take the next step in creating your
own log in timber frame home please
visit us online at precision craft
precision craft log and timber homes
precisely what you want